## Meeting on 2013-01-18T15:00Z

Call 8007072533 (via Skype), set to US number

## Reading

Reading assigned was:
  * [WHYHARD] why programming is hard to teach http://teaching.software-carpentry.org/wp-content/uploads/2012/08/guzdial.pdf
  * [MOOC] MOOCs are a fundamental misperception of how teaching works http://computinged.wordpress.com/2013/01/04/moocs-are-a-fundamental-misperception-of-how-learning-works/
  * [BIGGERISSUES] The Bigger Issues in Learning to Code: Culture and Pedagogy http://computinged.wordpress.com/2012/12/21/the-bigger-issues-in-learning-to-code-culture-and-pedagogy/

Other works:
  [AMBROSEETAL2010] "How Learning Works"

  [MARGOLISFISHER2002] "Unlocking the Clubhouse"

## Reading Notes

What is a MOOC? (Massive Open Online Course, like Coursera)

Good reading materials. Diving in to some contentious issues.

[BIGGERISSUES] Culture and pedagogy. On culture: It is a
problem that whatever we're currently doing to draw students
into programming, it basically only work for middle class white
males. It's encouraging that (from this post and other works)
there are practices that can be developed to help. Chapter 6 of
[AMBROSETAL2010] and [MARGOLISFISHER2002] refer.

I would be keen to see Teaching03 develop this further,
particularly as Chapter 6 is one where I felt I had least
traction. Reading it raised questions in my mind like "What is
the black perspective on list comprehensions?" and "how would a
mother structure this data?"; that is partly in jest, but I
still find myself ill-equipped to answer or even begin to
address such questions.

On pedagogy: Encouraging that there are proven practices that
improve outcomes, depressing that they might not be very well
know about. Why is that? Is it because all the research is
behind a paywall?

[MOOC] This is part pedagogy part university branding. I've
never taken one, but I suspect I would do pretty well with a
MOOC. Do universities teach? There are several statements in
this post that are not well supported within the context of the
article itself. In questioning "the teaching is dependent on
the domain ... The same general course structure is not as
effective as a course structure aimed at the domain" I am
reading the linked blog post. I can summarise that (glibly) by
saying that a link to another blog post is not evidence.

"If the only educated people in our society were the ones who
wanted to learn ... our society would collapse". Laughably
unsupported by evidence. I am becoming a little bit concerned as
to how wide ranging my own education may have to become if I
want to be an effective teacher. I have to learn about Marxism
and Feminism and all that? The quote is closely followed by
"Our society depends on teachers who motivate students to
persevere and learn". Really Mark? Could you come up with a more
ego-inflating self-serving quote?

"The role of education in society is to teach everyone, not just
those auto-didacts who can learn in a MOOC". Guzdial is trying to
frame the debate so that MOOCs are not even considered education
because they don't teach everyone. In other words MOOCs don't
conform to Guzdial's notion of what education is about, so
they're not education.

The blog article, particularly the parting shot "We haven't done
enough to tell people what we do well. MOOCs do what the
external would things that University teachers do.", makes the
wonder what University teachers, and universities do.

[WHYHARD] They have this cute little rainfall problem (which
perhaps shows some evidence that languages with "break"
statements are more likely to yield correct programs). In the
2001 McCracken group, it looks like students are asked to
program ON PAPER. If so, that's not a very realistic
environment. Would the two hump effect be less mysterious if
thre were other variables that also displayed this bi-modal
distribution?

